# optimization techniques
#### three optimization techniques
quantization, freezing and fusion

## quantization
Quantization refers to the process of reducing the number of bits that represent a number. In the context of deep learning, the predominant numerical format used for research and for deployment has so far been 32-bit floating point, or FP32. However, the desire for reduced bandwidth and compute requirements of deep learning models has driven research into using lower-precision numerical formats. It has been extensively demonstrated that weights and activations can be represented using 8-bit integers (or INT8) without incurring significant loss in accuracy. The use of even lower bit-widths, such as 4/2/1-bits, is an active field of research that has also shown great progress.

## freezing
Freezing in this context is used for TensorFlow models. Freezing TensorFlow models will remove certain operations and metadata only needed for training, such as those related to backpropagation. Freezing a TensorFlow model is usually a good idea whether before performing direct inference or converting with the Model Optimizer.

## fusion
Fusion relates to combining multiple layer operations into a single operation. For example, a batch normalization layer, activation layer, and convolutional layer could be combined into a single operation. This can be particularly useful for GPU inference, where the separate operations may occur on separate GPU kernels, while a fused operation occurs on one kernel, thereby incurring less overhead in switching from one kernel to the next.

###  hardware optimizations
those are done by the Inference Engine (upcoming lessons), not by the Model Optimizer

# the supported frameworks with the OpenVINO™ Toolkit are:

* Caffe
* TensorFlow
* MXNet
* ONNX (which can support PyTorch and Apple ML models through another conversion step)
* Kaldi

*Caffe is originally from UC Berkeley, TensorFlow is from Google Brain, MXNet is from Apache Software, ONNX is combined effort of Facebook and Microsoft, and Kaldi was originally an individual’s effort. Most of these are fairly multi-purpose frameworks, while Kaldi is primarily focused on speech recognition data.*