# types of computer vision models
the main three types of models that I will be using in this series are  
- classification
- detection
- segmentation

apart from these three, there are other classes of models and there are ew models coming out all the time.  

#### classification model
A classification model attempts to draw some conclusion from observed values. Given one or more inputs a classification model will try to predict the value of one or more outcomes.

#### detection model
Deals with determining that objects that appear at different places in an image, and oftentimes draws bounding boxes around the detected objects. It also usually has some form of classification that determines the class of an object in a given bounding box. The bounding boxes have a confidence threshold so you can throw out low-confidence detections.

#### segmentation models
Segmentation classifies sections of an image by classifying each and every pixel.
Subsets  
- semantic segmentation: all instances of a class are considered as one
- instance segmentation: consider separates instances of a class as separate objects.

## CV Architectures
#### [SSD: Single Shot MultiBox Detector](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.02325.pdf)
unlike early detection models that ran classifiers multiple times over an image, SSD worls by having several default bounding boxes and uss these boxes at different levels of the neural networks, thereby using different scales of the image and detecting multiple objects at one go.

#### [ResNet:Deep Residual Learning for Image Recognition](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.03385.pdf)
This model uses resedual layers that pass resedual information foreward by skipping inbetween layers, also useful during back propagation. Allows creation of very deep neural network architectures.

#### MobileNet
MobileNets are based on a streamlined architecture that uses depth-wise separable convolutions to build light weight deep neural networks.

#### pretrained models in openvino
Most of the models in openvino toolkit fall under the following categories:
- face detection 
- human detection 
- or vehicle-related detection

check them out [here](https://software.intel.com/en-us/openvino-toolkit/documentation/pretrained-models)

cheers!