# Loading Pre-Trained Models
Lets download and load a few of the pre-trained models available in the OpenVINO toolkit.

Install OpenVino toolkit and setup your environment.   
The models can be downloaded via Model Downloader (<OPENVINO_INSTALL_DIR>/deployment_tools/open_model_zoo/tools/downloader). 

### Task 1 - Find the Right Models
Using the [Pre-Trained Model list](https://software.intel.com/en-us/openvino-toolkit/documentation/pretrained-models), determine which models could accomplish the following tasks (there may be some room here in determining which model to download):
- Human Pose Estimation
- Text Detection
- Determining Car Type & Color

### Task 2 - Download the Models
Once you have determined which model best relates to the above tasks, use the Model Downloader tool to download them into the workspace for the following precision levels:
- Human Pose Estimation: All precision levels
- Text Detection: FP16 only
- Determining Car Type & Color: INT8 only

#### install the following models for the tutorial:
- Human Pose Estimation: [human-pose-estimation-0001](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_models_intel_human_pose_estimation_0001_description_human_pose_estimation_0001.html)
- Text Detection: [text-detection-0004](http://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_models_intel_text_detection_0004_description_text_detection_0004.html)
- Determining Car Type & Color: [vehicle-attributes-recognition-barrier-0039](https://docs.openvinotoolkit.org/latest/_models_intel_vehicle_attributes_recognition_barrier_0039_description_vehicle_attributes_recognition_barrier_0039.html)

#### Downloading Models

To navigate to the directory containing the Model Downloader:

    cd /opt/intel/openvino/deployment_tools/open_model_zoo/tools/downloader

The above step may vary according to your environment

    Within there, you'll notice a downloader.py file, and can use the -h argument with it to see available arguments. For this exercise, --name for model name, and --precisions, used when only certain precisions are desired, are the important arguments. Note that running downloader.py without these will download all available pre-trained models, which will be multiple gigabytes. 

You can do this on your local machine, if desired, but the workspace will not allow you to store that much information.

##### human pose detection

    sudo ./downloader.py --name human-pose-estimation-0001 -o /home/workspace

##### Downloading Text Detection Model

    sudo ./downloader.py --name text-detection-0004 --precisions FP16 -o /home/workspace

##### Downloading Car Metadata Model

    sudo ./downloader.py --name vehicle-attributes-recognition-barrier-0039 --precisions INT8 -o /home/workspace

### Task 3 - Verify the Downloads
The downloader itself will tell you the directories these get saved into, but to verify yourself, first start in the /home/workspace directory (or the same directory as the Model Downloader if on your local machine without the -o argument). From there, you can cd intel, and then you should see three directories - one for each downloaded model. Within those directories, there should be separate subdirectories for the precisions that were downloaded, and then .xml and .bin files within those subdirectories, that make up the model.

Use the `-h` command with the Model Downloader tool if you need to check out the possible arguments to include when downloading specific models and precisions.

cheers!